Ancient Olympic Games
=====================

The ancient Olympic Games were a series of athletic competitions among
representatives of various city-states of Ancient Greece. They were held in
honor of Zeus, and the Greeks gave them a mythological origin. Historical
records indicate that they began in 776 BC in Olympia. They continued to be
celebrated when Greece came under Roman rule, until the emperor Theodosius I
suppressed them in 394 AD as part of the campaign to impose Christianity as the
state religion of Rome. The games were usually held every four years, or
olympiad, which became a unit of time in historical chronologies.

During the celebration of the games, an Olympic Truce was enacted so that
athletes could travel from their countries to the games in safety. The prizes
for the victors were wreaths of laurel leaves. The games became a political
tool used by city-states to assert dominance over their rivals. Politicians
would announce political alliances at the games, and in times of war, priests
would offer sacrifices to the gods for victory. The games were also used to
help spread Hellenistic culture throughout the Mediterranean. The Olympics
also featured religious celebrations and artistic competitions. The statue of
Zeus at Olympia was counted as one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
Sculptors and poets would congregate each olympiad to display their works of
art to would-be patrons.

The ancient Olympics had fewer events than the modern games, and only free men
who spoke Greek could compete (although a woman Bilistiche is also mentioned
as a winning chariot owner). As long as they met the entrance criteria,
athletes from any country or city-state were allowed to participate. The games
were always held at Olympia rather than alternating to different locations as
is the tradition with the modern Olympic Games. Victors at the Olympics were
highly honored and praised, and their feats chronicled for future generations.