Siege of Troy
=============

In Greek mythology, the Trojan War was waged against the city of Troy by the
Achaeans (Greeks) after Paris of Troy took Helen from her husband Menelaus
king of Sparta. The war is one of the most important events in Greek mythology
and has been narrated through many works of Greek literature, most notably
through Homer's Iliad and the Odyssey. The Iliad relates a part of the last
year of the siege of Troy; the Odyssey describes Odysseus's journey home.
Other parts of the war are contained in a cycle of epic poems, which have
survived through fragments. Episodes from the war provided material for Greek
tragedy and other works of Greek literature, and for Roman poets including
Virgil and Ovid.

The war originated from a quarrel between the goddesses Athena, Hera, and
Aphrodite, after Eris, the goddess of strife and discord, gave them a golden
apple, sometimes known as the Apple of Discord, marked "for the fairest". Zeus
sent the goddesses to Paris, who judged that Aphrodite, as the "fairest",
should receive the apple. In exchange, Aphrodite made Helen, the most
beautiful of all women and wife of Menelaus, fall in love with Paris, who took
her to Troy. Agamemnon, king of Mycenae and the brother of Helen's husband
Menelaus, led an expedition of Achaean troops to Troy and besieged the city
for ten years because of Paris' insult. After the deaths of many heroes,
including the Achaeans Achilles and Ajax, and the Trojans Hector and Paris,
the city fell to the ruse of the Trojan Horse. The Achaeans slaughtered the
Trojans (except for some of the women and children whom they kept or sold as
slaves) and desecrated the temples, thus earning the gods' wrath. Few of the
Achaeans returned safely to their homes and many founded colonies in distant
shores. The Romans later traced their origin to Aeneas, one of the Trojans,
who was said to have led the surviving Trojans to modern day Italy.

The ancient Greeks thought that the Trojan War was a historical event that had
taken place in the 13th or 12th century BC, and believed that Troy was located
in modern-day Turkey near the Dardanelles. By modern times, both the war and
the city were widely believed to be non-historical. In 1868, however, the
German archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann met Frank Calvert, who convinced
Schliemann that Troy was at Hissarlik and Schliemann took over Calvert's
excavations on property belonging to Calvert; this claim is now accepted by
most scholars. Whether there is any historical reality behind the Trojan War
is an open question. Many scholars believe that there is a historical core to
the tale, though this may simply mean that the Homeric stories are a fusion of
various tales of sieges and expeditions by Mycenaean Greeks during the Bronze
Age. Those who believe that the stories of the Trojan War are derived from a
specific historical conflict usually date it to the 12th or 11th centuries BC,
often preferring the dates given by Eratosthenes, 1194â€“1184 BC, which roughly
corresponds with archaeological evidence of a catastrophic burning of Troy
VIIa.
