Alexander the Great's Conquest of Egypt
=======================================

The Ptolemaic Kingdom in and around Egypt began following Alexander the
Great's conquest in 332 BC and ended with the death of Cleopatra VII and the
Roman conquest in 30 BC. It was founded when Ptolemy I Soter declared himself
Pharaoh of Egypt, creating a powerful Hellenistic state stretching from
southern Syria to Cyrene and south to Nubia. Alexandria became the capital
city and a center of Greek culture and trade. To gain recognition by the
native Egyptian populace, they named themselves the successors to the
Pharaohs. The later Ptolemies took on Egyptian traditions by marrying their
siblings, had themselves portrayed on public monuments in Egyptian style and
dress, and participated in Egyptian religious life. Hellenistic culture
thrived in Egypt until the Muslim conquest. The Ptolemies had to fight native
rebellions and were involved in foreign and civil wars that led to the decline
of the kingdom and its annexation by the Roman Empire.

Following Alexander's death in Babylon in 323 BC,] a succession crisis
erupted among his generals. Initially, Perdiccas ruled the empire as regent
for Alexander's half-brother Arrhidaeus, who became Philip III of Macedon, and
then as regent for both Philip III and Alexander's infant son Alexander IV of
Macedon, who had not been born at the time of his father's death. Perdiccas
appointed Ptolemy, one of Alexander's closest companions, to be satrap of
Egypt. Ptolemy ruled Egypt from 323 BC, nominally in the name of the joint
kings Philip III and Alexander IV. However, as Alexander the Great's empire
disintegrated, Ptolemy soon established himself as ruler in his own right.
Ptolemy successfully defended Egypt against an invasion by Perdiccas in 321
BCE, and consolidated his position in Egypt and the surrounding areas during
the Wars of the Diadochi (322 BC-301 BC). In 305 BC, Ptolemy took the title of
King. As Ptolemy I Soter ("Saviour"), he founded the Ptolemaic dynasty that
was to rule Egypt for nearly 300 years.
