The Expulsion of Tarquinius Superbus
====================================

Early in his reign Tarquinius Superbus, Rome's seventh and final king, called
a meeting of the Latin leaders at which persuaded them to renew their treaty
with Rome and become her allies rather than her enemies, and it was agreed
that the troops of the Latins would attend at a grove sacred to the goddess
Ferentina on an appointed day to form a united military force with the troops
of Rome. This was done, and Tarquin formed combined units of Roman and Latin
troops.

Tarquin next began a war against the Volsci. He took the wealthy town of
Suessa Pometia, with the spoils of which he commenced the erection of the
Temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus which his father had vowed. He also
celebrated a triumph for his victory.

He was next engaged in a war with Gabii, one of the Latin cities, which had
rejected the Latin treaty with Rome. Unable to take the city by force of arms,
Tarquin had his son, Sextus Tarquinius, infiltrate the city, gain the trust of
its people and command of its army. In time he killed or exiled the city's
leaders, and handed control of the city over to his father.

Tarquin also agreed a peace with the Aequi, and renewed the treaty of peace
between Rome and the Etruscans.[29] According to the Fasti Triumphales,
Tarquin also won a victory over the Sabines.

Tarquinius later went to war with the Rutuli. According to Livy, the Rutuli
were, at that time, a very wealthy nation. Tarquinius was desirous of
obtaining the booty which would come with victory over the Rutuli. Tarquin
unsuccessfully sought to take the Rutulian capital, Ardea, by storm, and
subsequently began an extensive siege of the city. The war was interrupted by
the revolution which overthrew the Roman monarchy. The Roman army, camped
outside Ardea, welcomed Lucius Junius Brutus as their new leader, and expelled
the king's sons. It is unclear what was the outcome of the siege, or indeed
the war.
