Peloponnesian War
=================

The Peloponnesian War, 431 to 404 BC, was an ancient Greek war fought by
Athens and its empire against the Peloponnesian League led by Sparta.
Historians have traditionally divided the war into three phases. In the
first phase, the Archidamian War, Sparta launched repeated invasions of
Attica, while Athens took advantage of its naval supremacy to raid the coast
of the Peloponnese attempting to suppress signs of unrest in its empire. This
period of the war was concluded in 421 BC, with the signing of the Peace of
Nicias. That treaty, however, was soon undermined by renewed fighting in the
Peloponnese. In 415 BC, Athens dispatched a massive expeditionary force to
attack Syracuse in Sicily; the attack failed disastrously, with the
destruction of the entire force, in 413 BC. This ushered in the final phase
of the war, generally referred to either as the Decelean War, or the Ionian
War. In this phase, Sparta, now receiving support from Persia, supported
rebellions in Athens' subject states in the Aegean Sea and Ionia, undermining
Athens' empire, and, eventually, depriving the city of naval supremacy. The
destruction of Athens' fleet at Aegospotami effectively ended the war, and
Athens surrendered in the following year.

The Peloponnesian War reshaped the ancient Greek world. On the level of
international relations, Athens, the strongest city-state in Greece prior to
the war's beginning, was reduced to a state of near-complete subjection, while
Sparta became established as the leading power of Greece. The economic costs
of the war were felt all across Greece; poverty became widespread in the
Peloponnese, while Athens found itself completely devastated, and never
regained its pre-war prosperity. The war also wrought subtler changes to
Greek society; the conflict between democratic Athens and oligarchic Sparta,
each of which supported friendly political factions within other states, made
civil war a common occurrence in the Greek world.

Greek warfare, meanwhile, originally a limited and formalized form of
conflict, was transformed into an all-out struggle between city-states,
complete with atrocities on a large scale. Shattering religious and cultural
taboos, devastating vast swathes of countryside, and destroying whole cities,
the Peloponnesian War marked the dramatic end to the fifth century BC and the
golden age of Greece.
