The Secession of the Plebs
==========================

The Conflict of the Orders, also referred to as the Struggle of the Orders,
was a political struggle between the Plebeians (commoners) and Patricians
(aristocrats) of the ancient Roman Republic lasting from 494 BC to 287 BC, in
which the Plebeians sought political equality with the Patricians. It played a
major role in the development of the Constitution of the Roman Republic. The
conflict began while Rome was at war with two neighboring tribes and all the
Plebeians left the city (the first secessio plebis). The result of this first
secession was the creation of the office of Plebeian Tribune, and with it the
first acquisition of real power by the Plebeians.

At first only Patricians were allowed to stand for election to political
office, but over time these laws were revoked, and eventually all offices were
opened to the Plebeians. Since most individuals who were elected to political
office were given membership in the Roman Senate, this development helped to
transform the senate from a body of Patricians into a body of Plebeian and
Patrician aristocrats. This development occurred at the same time that the
Plebeian legislative assembly, the Plebeian Council, was acquiring additional
power. At first, its acts ("plebiscites") applied only to Plebeians, although
after 339 BC, with the institution of laws by the first Plebeian dictator
Q. Publilius Philo, these acts began to apply to both Plebeians and
Patricians, with a senatorial veto of all measures approved by the council.

It wasn't until 287 BC that the Patrician senators lost their last check over
the Plebeian Council. However, the Patricio-Plebeian aristocracy in the senate
still retained other means by which to control the Plebeian Council, in
particular the closeness between the Plebeian Tribunes and the senators. While
this conflict would end in 287 BC with the Plebeians having acquired political
equality with the Patricians, the plight of the average Plebeian had not
changed. A small number of aristocratic Plebeian families had emerged, and
most Plebeian politicians came from one of these families. Since this new
Patricio-Plebeian aristocracy was based on the structure of society, it could
only be overthrown through a revolution. That revolution ultimately came in
49 BC, when Julius Caesar crossed the Rubicon River, and began a civil war,
which overthrew the Roman Republic, and created the Roman Empire.
